I recently attended a leadership course offered by ExactTarget called Lead From Within. I did not know what to expect, so on the first day when they asked, "on a scale from 1 to 7, how useful to do you plan for this to be?" I had my doubts.They said, "It is what you make it," and boy were they right. After finishing the first two days, I would rate this course a 10.##My ThoughtsI thought this training was invaluable, and I am glad I was one of the people selected to attend.Over two days I learned a lot about leadership and myself. I mean a lot. I've been through a lot of leadership training prior (Boy Scouts and Fraternity), but this was by far the most valuable.The big thing I noticed was that the concepts we learned were nothing new. They were common sense, but none of us were aware of this because we had not taken the time to look at ourselves and reflect on what we were doing.It comes down to our habits. So, what are habits? Habits are "an acquired behavior pattern regularly followed until it has become almost involuntary." Hmm, that's interesting. So it's something we do often that we don't realize we're doing.The training we received was about the 7 habits of highly effective people. I won't go into the 7 habits right now, but the gist is that we need to first realize who we are before we can contribute within teams. Simplified, we need to achieve private victories before we can achieve public victories.One of the things that I took to heart was the fact that there are three stages of maturity. First, dependence is where you don't take responsibility for actions. It's constant blame being placed on others, like "You didn't do this so I can't do that." Next, is independence and that's where you identify with yourself. You start using the word "I" instead of "you." Last, there is interdependence. This is where you realize there is something more that you. The word "we" becomes commonplace. This is super cool, and I didn't realize I was doing this until now. I use "we" a lot in all my communications and rarely pass blame.  Good thing I'm on the right track.We learned a lot of other things, but if I blogged about all of them it would be a never ending post, so I digress.Over the next three months/the rest of my life I'll be looking at myself and try to determine what can be better. It's going to be a fun journey, and cannot wait to improve upon myself! Yes, I'm not perfect. Shocker right?!?##My Personal Mission StatementBefore I briefly describe the training, I want to share my personal mission statement. It's far from complete, but it's a start.To continually improve myself in my personal life and at work while not forgetting about the balances between them. To be an expert in my field while helping others grow in their own right.##The TrainingWe were taught all about Stephen Covey's 7 Habits of Highly Effective People. It was eye opening. I'll only touch on each habit briefly. If you want more info I suggest reading his book.###Habit 1 - Be ProactiveInstead of being reactive, be proactive. Don't react based on moods, feelings, or circumstances. Take a deep breath and think it through based on the desired results. For example, instead of saying, "I can't" say, "Let's explore all the possibilities and see what we can come up with."###Habit 2 - Begin with the End in MindDefine the desired outcomes before you being any task. Don't start the task and then decide what you want to achieve.###Habit 3 - Put First Things FirstThis is HUGE!! Determine what is important and urgent, and that should be the first thing you work on. Then determine what is important and not urgent, and that should be what you strive to achieve when you have time. Try to limit the things that are unimportant and urgent, and unimportant and not urgent. You shouldn't waste your time on unimportant and not urgent items. I'm guilty of this, and it's one of the things I'll be working hard on.###Habit 4 - Think Win-WinEvery situation you enter should be with the mindset of win-win. How can we all work together to accomplish a common goal? Does this mean compromise? In some situations, yes, but in others there may be a way for everyone to come out ahead.###Habit 5 - Seek First to Understand, Then to Be UnderstoodThis is so important. We need to LISTEN to people. Like, really listen. If you're thinking about something else while someone is talking, then you're not listening. If you don't understand the core message, how can you expect to continue down the correct path?###Habit 6 - SynergizeFind the strengths in others. Value people's/team's differences and try to seek alternatives that help all parties. The goal is to end up with a result that is better than what either party started with.###Habit 7 - Sharpen the SawDon't forget to work on yourself or take "me" time. You cannot grow if you are not constantly questioning your behavior and actions.Well, that's it for now. Can't wait to see what I can improve.Quick shoutout to my table (BJ, Chad, Tove, Jason, and Lisa), and all the people I met during this training. You are all awesome!